Details on the accuracy/order point:

As you know, there is a tradeoff between higher accuracy of higher
order methods and their additional work.  If a 4th order method is
twice as much work per grid point as a 2cd order method, and is one
could get the same accuracy with a second order method by just
doubling the number of grid points, then there is no advantage of the
4th order method.  But because a few extra FLOPS are almost free once
you've moved data onto a processor (since the memory bandwidth and
interprocessor communcation bandwidth is usually the bottleneck), the
extra computational cost of a 4th order method vs. a 2cd order method
is often not very large on modern CPUs.

Another issue is that if one is trying to get highly accurate
solutions, as is sometimes the case for steady-state laminar flows,
then one is almost always better off with high-order methods (which is
why some people look at 8th order or 16th order DG).  But for
turbulent systems one is often happy with relatively low accuracy (~1%
or even ~10% for some engineering applications), since the system is
chaotic and one has to do time averages over the fluctuations anyway
to get good statistics.  (For systems with shocks where only 1st order
accuracy is achievable near the shocks, there is also less interest in
getting extremely high accuracy.) There are some papers (I think by
Greenough or others) that Jim Stone pointed out to me showing that
using more grid points with 2cd order Van Leer / Godunov methods is
more efficient than going to higher order methods.

To quantify this, if the error scales as 

  error ~ (Delta x)^p ~ 1/Ntot^{p/d}

where p is the order of the system, d is the dimensionality of the
system, and Delta x ~ 1/N_1 ~ 1/Ntot^{1/d}, then we see that the
number of grid points

"This latter point is why I added the qualifier "direct scheme",
because I think it should be possible to indirectly conserve momentum
and energy simultaneously through the following trick: Explicitly
solve the fluid momentum conservation equation (with a Maxwell stress
term for the electric acceleration so the fluid momentum conservation
equation can be differenced in conservative form), and each time step
slightly adjust the kinetic solution to exactly match this momentum
while conserving energy (and particles).  I.e., one would add a
Lenard-Bernstien-type operator to the kinetic equation but with
modified coefficients on the operator to slightly adjust the momentum
every time step while preserving the energy.  Since this
momentum-correction operator should scale like (Delta x) to a high
power, the discretized kinetic equation will still converge to the
right answer, it's just that the truncation error has no component
that would break momentum or energy conservation."
